[DOCS] Add/update docs for users upgrading to V3 ML modules (#2080)
elastic/security-docs: docs/detections/rules-ui-monitor.asciidoc

[[ml-job-compatibility]]
==== Troubleshoot missing alerts for {ml} jobs

> {ml-cap} detection rules use {ml} jobs that have dependencies on data fields populated by the {beats} and {agent} integrations. In version 8.3, new {ml} jobs (prefixed with `V3`) were released to operate on the ECS fields available at that time. If you're using multiple versions of {beats} or {agent} (from both before and after 8.3), you may need to duplicate or create new {ml} rules that specify the new ML `V3` jobs and enable them to run alongside your existing rules, to ensure continued coverage from rules currently using `V1` or `V2` jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ml-cap} detection rules use {ml} jobs that have dependencies on data fields populated by the {beats} and {agent} integrations. In version 8.3, new {ml} jobs (prefixed with `V3`) were released to operate on the ECS fields available at that time. If you're using versions of {beats} or {agent} both before and after 8.3, you may need to duplicate or create new {ml} rules that specify the new ML `V3` jobs and enable them to run alongside your existing rules, to ensure continued coverage from rules currently using `V1` or `V2` jobs.
```
For your consideration, I was a bit confused by the sentence at first, though it became very clear after reading then following bullets so feel free to disregard this.

Author: Fair point, it's a confusing subject. I'm going to retool some of this based on @spong's comments below, so I'll revisit this to see if I can make it clearer on first read, without having to read through everything else to understand it.

> {ml-cap} detection rules use {ml} jobs that in turn have dependencies on data fields populated by the {beats} and {agent} integrations. In version 8.3.0, new {ml} jobs (prefixed with `V3`) were released to operate on the ECS fields available at that time. If you're using multiple versions of {beats} or {agent} (from both before and after 8.3.0), you may need to duplicate or create new {ml} rules that specify the new ML `V3` jobs and enable them to run alongside your existing rules, to ensure continued coverage from rules currently using `V1` or `V2` jobs.

Reviewer 2: When I see "in turn" being used, I usually look for some sort of cause and effect relationship. That's sorta present, but I also think you can remove the phrase and the sentence will still be clear and make sense. It's up to you though! Also removed the third digit in the version since I noticed you're only using two digits (e.g., `8.2` and `8.3`) below.

> * If you only have 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can continue using the same `V1` and `V2` {ml} jobs and the existing prebuilt {ml} rules. 

Reviewer 3: So in this instance, if they have existing v1/v2 jobs and using the prebuilt ML rules for those jobs, they're going to need to duplicate these before updating their detection rules otherwise their rules are going to get updated to point to the new v3 jobs and stop working.

I wonder if it'd be useful to have this specific tidbit as an info/warning callout above just so it's explicitly clear 1. what configurations are affected, and 2. what needs to be done before updating their rules to ensure continued coverage. What do you think?

Author: @spong Thanks for your detailed comments! I agree, adding a callout above all this might help create more of a call to action, and better establish the conditions involved.

I'm going to take another crack at all of this based on your and @benironside's feedback so far, and I'll ping you when another draft is ready. I think I was leaning too heavily on the previous docs for the transition from `V1` to `V2`, and these require their own approach.

> * If you have only 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can continue using the same `V1` and `V2` {ml} jobs and the existing prebuilt {ml} rules. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you only have 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can continue using the same `V1` and `V2` {ml} jobs and the existing prebuilt {ml} rules. 
```

> * If you only have 8.3 or later versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can use the latest `V3` {ml} jobs. To generate alerts for anomalies using these jobs, duplicate the existing {ml} rules and reconfigure them to use the `V3` {ml} jobs.

Reviewer 3: So in this instance, they actually don't need to duplicate the existing rules since the new rule updates will contain the change to point to the v3 jobs. All they'll need to do is load /update to the latest rules in the UI, and start using the v3 jobs/rules and they'll be 👍

> * If you have only 8.3 or later versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can use the latest `V3` {ml} jobs. To generate alerts for anomalies using these jobs, duplicate the existing {ml} rules and reconfigure them to use the `V3` {ml} jobs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you only have 8.3 or later versions of {beats} and {agent}, you can use the latest `V3` {ml} jobs. To generate alerts for anomalies using these jobs, duplicate the existing {ml} rules and reconfigure them to use the `V3` {ml} jobs.
```

> * If you have a mix of old and new versions of {beats} or a mix of {beats} and {agent} integrations, you can use both the old and new {ml} jobs. To generate alerts for anomalies using the new jobs, duplicate the existing {ml} rules and reconfigure them to use the `V3` {ml} jobs.

Reviewer 3: Slightly backwards here -- the duplication of the existing rules is to ensure continued v1/v2 compatibility, as when they update to the latest rules those will contain support for the v3 jobs. So if they need to support both v1/v2 and v3, they should duplicate their existing ML jobs (and leave them as is), then update/load the latest prebuilt rules and enable the v3 jobs.

> * If you have a non-Elastic data shipper that gathers ECS-compatible events, use the `V3` {ml} jobs. To generate alerts for anomalies using these jobs, duplicate the existing {ml} rules and reconfigure them to use the `V3` {ml} jobs.

Reviewer 3: As above, when wanting to leverage the v3 jobs all they need to do is update the rules in `8.3`, no duplicating necessary here. But if they are migrating from v1/v2 jobs, we'll want to ensure they enable the v3 job, then update their rules.

If you're duplicating prebuilt {ml} rules to generate alerts using the new `V3` {ml} jobs,

> the following rules are affected. Use the new {ml} job listed for each rule:

Reviewer: I'm not quite clear on how this means the following rules are affected. Does it mean that any prebuilt rules not listed here can continue to use the old ML jobs?

[[ml-job-compatibility]]
==== Troubleshoot missing alerts for {ml} jobs

> {ml-cap} detection rules use {ml} jobs that have dependencies on data fields populated by the {beats} and {agent} integrations. In version 8.3, new {ml} jobs (prefixed with `v3`) were released to operate on the ECS fields available at that time. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{ml-cap} detection rules use {ml} jobs that have dependencies on data fields populated by the {beats} and {agent} integrations. In {stack} version 8.3, new {ml} jobs (prefixed with `v3`) were released to operate on the ECS fields available at that time. 
```

Reviewer 2: Minor, and totally optional, edit for clarity.

> If you're using 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent} with {stack} version 8.3 or later, you may need to duplicate prebuilt rules or create new custom rules _before_ you update the Elastic prebuilt rules. Once you update the prebuilt rules, they will only use `v3` {ml} jobs. Duplicating the relevant prebuilt rules before updating them ensures continued coverage, by allowing you to keep using `v1` or `v2` jobs in the duplicated rules while running alongside the new `v3` jobs in the updated prebuilt rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you're using 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent} with {stack} version 8.3 or later, you may need to duplicate prebuilt rules or create new custom rules _before_ you update the Elastic prebuilt rules. Once you update the prebuilt rules, they will only use `v3` {ml} jobs. Duplicating the relevant prebuilt rules before updating them ensures continued coverage by allowing you to keep using `v1` or `v2` jobs while also running the new `v3` jobs.
```

Reviewer 2: The wording in the last sentence is a little confusing to me. I interpreted it as a recommendation for users to  duplicate relevant V1 and V2 prebuilt rules before upgrading so that they could continue running those duplicate rules alongside the newer V3 rules.

Author: Discussed with @nastasha-solomon on Slack: it's important to still specify which rules are running with which ML jobs, so this tries to make that clearer:
```suggestion
If you're using 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent} with {stack} version 8.3 or later, you may need to duplicate prebuilt rules or create new custom rules _before_ you update the Elastic prebuilt rules. Once you update the prebuilt rules, they will only use `v3` {ml} jobs. Duplicating the relevant prebuilt rules before updating them ensures continued coverage by allowing you to keep using `v1` or `v2` jobs (in the duplicated rules) while also running the new `v3` jobs (in the updated prebuilt rules).
```

> If you're using 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent} with {stack} version 8.3 or later, you may need to duplicate prebuilt rules or create new custom rules _before_ you update the Elastic prebuilt rules. Once you update the prebuilt rules, they will only use `v3` {ml} jobs, and you will no longer be able to assign `v1` or `v2` jobs to custom rules. Duplicating the relevant prebuilt rules before updating them ensures continued coverage, by allowing you to keep using `v1` or `v2` jobs in the duplicated rules while running alongside the new `v3` jobs in the updated prebuilt rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're using 8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent} with {stack} version 8.3 or later, you may need to duplicate prebuilt rules or create new custom rules _before_ you update the Elastic prebuilt rules. Once you update the prebuilt rules, they will only use `v3` {ml} jobs. Duplicating the relevant prebuilt rules before updating them ensures continued coverage, by allowing you to keep using `v1` or `v2` jobs in the duplicated rules while running alongside the new `v3` jobs in the updated prebuilt rules.
```

Technically they could re-assign the v1/v2 jobs to their custom rules, so we should either change this to `prebuilt rules` (which aren't editable anyway), or leave off entirely. Since these latest changes read so well I don't think this needs to be mentioned.

[IMPORTANT]
=====
* Duplicated rules may result in duplicate anomaly detections and alerts.
* Ensure that the relevant `v3` {ml} jobs are running before you update the Elastic prebuilt rules.
=====

> * If you only have *8.3 or later versions of {beats} and {agent}*: You can download or update your prebuilt rules and use the latest `v3` {ml} jobs with no additional action required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you only have *8.3 or later versions of {beats} and {agent}*: You can download or update your prebuilt rules and use the latest `v3` {ml} jobs. No additional action is required.
```

Author: I think it's helpful to have all of this information together, because the issue isn't whether or not the user can use the v3 rules, full stop. It's whether they have to do anything extra before they can use them.

Reviewer 2: Ah, gotcha. That last part describes the pre-reqs, not the post-reqs. Ignore my edits then! They change the message you were going for.

* If you only have *8.2 or earlier versions of {beats} or {agent}*, or *a mix of old and new versions*: To continue using the `v1` and `v2` {ml} jobs specified by pre-8.3 prebuilt detection rules, you must duplicate affected prebuilt rules _before_ updating them to the latest rule versions. The duplicated rules can continue using the same `v1` and `v2` {ml} jobs, and the updated prebuilt {ml} rules will use the new `v3` {ml} jobs.

> * If you have *a non-Elastic data shipper that gathers ECS-compatible events*: You can use the latest `v3` {ml} jobs with no additional action required, as long as your data shipper uses the latest ECS specifications. However, if you're migrating from {ml} rules using `v1`/`v2` jobs, ensure that you start the relevant `v3` jobs before updating the Elastic prebuilt rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If you have *a non-Elastic data shipper that gathers ECS-compatible events*: You can use the latest `v3` {ml} jobs as long as your data shipper uses the latest ECS specifications. However, if you're migrating from {ml} rules using `v1`/`v2` jobs, ensure that you start the relevant `v3` jobs before updating the Elastic prebuilt rules.
```

Reviewer 2: This might be my ignorance about the feature speaking, but I think you can remove this line and still convey that the only pre-req is that the user's data shipper uses the latest ECS specifications.

> The following Elastic prebuilt rules use the new `v3` {ml} jobs to generate alerts. Duplicate their associated `v1`/`v2` prebuilt rules _before_ updating them if you need continued coverage using the `v1`/`v2` {ml} jobs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following Elastic prebuilt rules use the new `v3` {ml} jobs to generate alerts. Duplicate their associated `v1`/`v2` prebuilt rules _before_ updating them if you need continued coverage from the `v1`/`v2` {ml} jobs:
```

> The following Elastic prebuilt rules use the new `v3` {ml} jobs to generate alerts. Duplicate these prebuilt rules _before_ updating them if you need continued coverage using the `v1`/`v2` {ml} jobs:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following Elastic prebuilt rules use the new `v3` {ml} jobs to generate alerts. Duplicate their associated v1/v2 prebuilt rules _before_ updating them if you need continued coverage using the `v1`/`v2` {ml} jobs:
```

Slight clarification since it's not the below rules that need to be duplicated, but their v1/v2 counterpart.
